[THEME MUSIC]
>> The setting is a picturesque,
serene place that literally
defines the phrase,
"God's country."
Nestled in the lush
Connecticut countryside,
this enclosed world of
picture-perfect postcards is
the location of the
Abbey Regina Laudis--
350 acres of farm
and woodland, where
the sound of a bird
in the distance
is made even more spectacular
by sounds like this--
[BELL RINGING]
[CHOIR SINGING GREGORIAN CHANT]
Founded in 1947,
the Abbey has become
the home to 35 Benedictine nuns,
and the spiritual haven for one
of Hollywood's most
promising young stars.
Her name was Dolores Hart.
And in 1963, after
major roles in 10 films,
she relinquished her
fame to begin a new life
behind the walls
of this convent.
She may have broken
hearts and made headlines,
but for 37 years, she has been
true to her one and only dream,
which is simply to serve God.
>> I just want to take a
minute to acknowledge that God
the Father is in this room.
And I ask of Him, since we
are gathered in His name,
to give us wings,
and let us fly.
Mother Dolores, I'm so
delighted to meet you.
I wanted to meet
you for a long time.
So this is a particular
pleasure for me.
>> Well, I thank you
very much, Chantal,
for allowing me to come into
such a very sacred and holy
place, because I think the
minute you call God's blessing
on everything, there's not much
left to say except everything,
right?
>> But as you will hear from
the Chicago-born beauty,
there is a great deal to say.
She was only 19
when she was first
cast opposite the King of
rock and roll, Elvis Presley,
in a movie called "Loving You."
[MUSIC - ELVIS PRESLEY]
Producer Hal Wallis saw in
her the perfect leading lady,
and once again, she
was cast opposite Elvis
in "King Creole."
Perhaps her most
memorable role was
that of a young innocent
in the beach-blanket comedy
called "Where the Boys Are."
>> You certainly had me fooled.
All that talk.
>> That's all it was is talk.
Unless you love me
the way I love you.
>> I love you, Merritt.
>> She went on to win
critical acclaim for her role
as a Jewish refugee in "Lisa,"
and as Saint Clare in "Francis
of Assisi."
It was in that
movie that Dolores
played a young woman
who becomes a nun,
heralding an event soon to
take place in her own life.
>> Let's go back in your life.
You are 19 years old.
You are an actress
being compared
to the likes of Grace Kelly.
What was your view
of Hollywood then?
>> Well, I was a Hollywood brat,
if you know what an army brat
is--
>> Yes, I am one.
I do know.
>> Well, I was a Hollywood brat
because my dad was discovered
in a soda fountain, actually,
in 1938 with the looks of Clark
Gable.
And at that time,
"Gone With The Wind"
had just made a great success.
And so they took my dad
out to be in continuity
at 20th Century Fox.
So my mom and I shortly
went to Hollywood.
I remember he took me
to see Vincent Price
in an old movie called "Shock."
And I remember on
the way in, he said
to me, I don't think
this is a great movie,
so we're not going to
bring it up, honey.
So when I met Mr. Price,
I can remember, he said,
how do you do, and
what's your name?
And I said, my name is
Dolores and my daddy
said "Shock" stank!
You, um-- anyway, that was
my beginning in Hollywood.
So I guess by the
time I was 19, I
felt that I had a place there.
And I never thought
about getting parts.
I thought about this is
what I was supposed to do,
and hopefully that
would be realized.
I don't know, it was
just an inner sense
of being absolutely
at home in that town.
>> During that time you worked
with a young man by the name
of Elvis Presley.
>> Mm-hmm.
>> Did you see his magic
then, when he was--
well, you were 19, he
was probably what--
20?
>> Mm-hmm.
>> Did you look at them--
did you look at
Elvis Presley then
and think, "you're going
to be a huge star"?
>> I thought he was fabulous.
I couldn't take my eyes off him.
I mean, I would never have
thought that within 50 years
the three words the world
would know would be "Jesus,"
"coca-cola," and "Elvis."
>> Yes.
You know, I'm a
big fan of Elvis.
And despite all of his records,
the gospel music that he sang
is the music that I love.
>> Yes.
>> And I wonder if you and Elvis
Presley ever talked about God,
talked about his faith, because
it seems to me he was a young
man who needed it so much.
>> Actually, it was the
only thing we talked about.
And that's why it's always been
difficult when people ask me
about Elvis because everyone
wants the sensational answers.
And we had a second
film together,
and it was "King Creole."
And our set was about 40
stories above the city,
because you couldn't go down
because the streets were
so crowded.
Because of him, obviously.
They knew he was there.
They had to put boards
from building to building
across the rooftops so that
we could get from the hotel
to the different sets.
And in between shots--
>> Incredible.
>> --we would wait in the
hotel suite that was rented
on the top floor.
And I remember being
there and Elvis going over
to the Bible that was in the
drawer in the hotel suite
and picking it out, and
opening it up and saying,
do you ever read the Bible?
And I said, well, of course.
And he said, well, this
is my favorite book.
What would you
like to talk about?
And he would open the Bible,
and he would reflect on--
and I think his reflections
were very humble.
His sense of the Bible
was, where do you
find the goodness of God,
and the goodness of humanity?
>> You know, I've always thought
that Elvis Presley's voice was
a gift from God, and now I
understand that truly it was.
>> Yes, it is.
[MUSIC - ELVIS PRESLEY, "LOVE ME
TENDER"]
>> (SINGING) Love me tender,
love me sweet, never let me go.
>> There was another
man in your life.
A man you were in love with,
you were going to marry--
Don Robinson.
>> Yes.
>> Tell me about him.
Tell me about loving him.
>> Don was a young John Kennedy.
That was the way he looked.
And still does.
He has that quality
of nobility about him.
And he had that
nobility in character.
>> It must be very difficult to
tell a man that you love that
you have fallen
in love with God.
>> I, uh, did it once, and you
have to make me talk about it
twice.
>> It was on a blind date that
Dolores first met Don Robinson.
And for him, it was
love at first sight.
Now a successful realtor for
Sotheby's in Beverly Hills,
California, Don remembers
that fateful evening
some 37 years ago.
>> I picked her up
at her apartment,
and walked up to a French little
restaurant on Sunset Boulevard.
And we were there for
about two or three hours.
And we had a wonderful
time, lots of laughs.
And actually, at the
end of that evening
I told her that I was going to
eventually ask her to marry me.
And she said, I hope so,
but I hope for a long time.
>> When we come back, Mother
Dolores makes the decision
which would change
her life forever.
[THEME MUSIC]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> It was only a few hours
later that it came back to me.
But what am I going to tell Don?
[THEME MUSIC]
>> Even though Dolores had
an ideal career and a man who
loved her, Don Robinson,
for Dolores Hart,
there was still
something missing.
Tell me about him.
Tell me about loving him,
and then leaving him.
>> Don finally said
to me, you know,
we really have to decide if
we're going to be married.
I can't-- can you at least
be engaged for six months?
Because if we can try a
six-month engagement--
and in the back of
my mind, I never
said yes to him because I
had this nagging feeling
that somewhere this was
not going to be my life.
So when he finally
said, call it, I said,
yes, for heaven's
sake, let's do it.
>> Well, during that time, there
were parties given for us about
our engagement.
And there were about four or
five parties given for us.
And I remember this
one particular party
we went to together,
and Dolores seemed
distant for the first time.
And she was at kind of
one end of the room,
and I was at the other.
I thought something
was strange, something
was on her mind,
something serious.
>> And we were coming back
from an engagement party.
And he stopped in the middle of
the road, and he said, Dolores,
do you love me?
And I said, well, of
course I love you, Don.
What are you talking about?
So we drove a little further,
and then he stopped and he
said, Dolores, do you love me?
And I said, Don, what
is this, St. Peter?
You know?
Really.
Of course, I love you.
What are you-- and he said, no.
He said, you were
not there tonight.
You weren't there.
>> Dolores wasn't
there that night.
And the next morning,
she flew to the Abbey,
where she was about to
make her final decision.
>> So I called Don and
I told him, I said,
I just have to tell you
that I'm in Connecticut,
and the guest house told
me I could stay for a week.
And I really think I
have to really think over
what it is we're doing.
And I remember I walked up to
a central part of our property
in the middle of a
blizzard that afternoon.
And I just knew, I said before
God, whatever I had to do,
I just needed to have
the strength to do it.
>> Yes.
Mother, is that
when you had what
would be called your
essential conversation
with God, where you make
a decision to devote
your life to Him?
Was that the beginning
of that conversation?
>> I'm sure, yes.
But I think the
essential conversation
was the one that I had with
the abbess when I came back.
She just said to
me, well, Dolores,
what do you want to do?
And I said, I want to give
my life completely to God,
but I have a house, I have
a life, I have a career.
And I said, so therefore, it
doesn't seem possible, does it?
And she sat for a few minutes.
And she said, Dolores,
what do you want to do?
And I said, well, I think God--
and she said, no, I
don't want to know
what God wants you to do.
I want to know what
you want to do.
And when you tell me
what you want to do,
then we can talk
about God, and we
can talk about your husband,
your house, your career.
But let's start with you.
And so I said, I want
to give my life to God.
That's what I want.
It was only a few hours later
that it came back to me,
what am I going to tell Don?
>> Soon after
Dolores arrived home,
she found the strength
to tell Don the truth.
>> We went to a
restaurant and had dinner.
And the restaurant
was very crowded,
so they seated us out in the
middle of the restaurant.
>> He said, well, what
decision have you come to?
And I had my ring with him, and
I took off my ring and I said,
Don, I can't wear this.
I have to try this vocation.
And you wouldn't be able to live
with me if I didn't try this.
And he said, well,
you know, this
is the worst possible
moment in my life.
And what can you say except
what a gift to a woman entering
a woman's monastery
to have a man
tell you that they want you.
>> It's been difficult at times.
But yet, through all
that, through all that,
she has built the
strength she has today.
And she's accepted
God's calling.
And we should all be so lucky.
>> But you are
still friends today.
>> We are the best of friends.
And Don said to me,
he said, you know,
every relationship doesn't
have to end at the altar.
Not at least that way.
>> I meant to ask you something
earlier that comes back
to my mind.
When you first
came to the Abbey,
what was the reaction of people
in Hollywood to your coming
here?
>> Well, Mr. Wallace, Hal
Wallace, who was my producer,
I had a seven-year
contract with him.
And Hal told me, don't come
back because you're not
going to go to work anyway.
He said-- he was so
angry, he just said, look,
if you come back to Hollywood,
you're not going to get a job,
so you better-- you
better stay there.
>> And what about the
public's reaction?
Did they ever come here?
Some people were angry
that you came to the Abbey.
>> I think they had
invested in my career.
And I think the public
has a right to invest.
And if you love a
person on the stage
or on the screen,
and that person,
you've identified with them and
then they're no longer there,
there is a grieving.
And I think I didn't die, but
it seemed to them like I died,
and it would seem
like I chose death.
>> So Mother Dolores, you
leave the Hollywood community.
You come in to the
community of sisterhood.
The first couple of years
you were here as a postulant?
>> Yes.
>> Were there times
that you thought,
what on Earth am I doing?
Am I nuts?
>> Chantal, I felt like I had
been thrown head first from
a 25-story building.
I think that's why I have a very
particular love for anyone who
is coming into postulancy,
because I thought
to myself, if I die
and go to purgatory,
it could not be the worst
experience than those months.
>> What made it hard?
>> Well, I think it's
entering, perhaps,
a world that is poor in all
of its material associations.
Because when you
have everything,
you don't realize that at the
same time you can have nothing.
And I don't think I
understood at that time what
of value poverty was.
>> What is the value of poverty?
The simplicity of it?
>> I think poverty is
essentially the realization
that everything you do and
have is in relationship.
>> Do you ever
miss little things?
Do you ever--
I can't believe I'm going to
ask you this, Mother Dolores,
but I'm driven, I'm
obsessed to ask you.
Do you miss little things
like lipstick, mascara?
>> Well, I'm an actress.
And in this costume,
lipstick wouldn't work.
Well, maybe--
>> It wouldn't work.
>> You're right,
it wouldn't work.
>> You'd say, I would look like
an actress dressed up as a nun.
>> You're right.
I don't think I've ever
been around a group of women
who were so joyful.
There's an image out there
that nuns don't laugh.
All the nuns here laugh.
Where do you find your joy?
Why is everybody here so happy?
>> Well, I think, Chantal, it's
because there is a spectrum
in this particular foundation
that has never been denied,
and that is the freedom
to say what you really are
experiencing.
And there's never
a depth of anguish
or instinctive rage or hurt
or surprise or expectation
that the community
denies one another.
And I think when you
are able to touch
the essential root of
another's personhood,
you are in a place
of freedom where
joy comes because you're
so damn happy you got out
of the last stupid mess.
>> Yes, yes.
>> That you would just say,
oh, we did it again, thank God.
>> People have bad moods.
People have bad days.
There's also the misconception
that when you become a nun,
everything is smooth.
But the idea that you recognize
each other's human frailties,
and deal with them, that's
part of it, isn't it?
>> Well, that's really one of
the first things that anyone
coming through postulancy
or novitiate has to begin
to undertake, is the discovery
of their own real antagonism.
And an antagonism for
life, which we all
carry, because we all have the
trace of original sin within us
that we're trying to overcome.
And even if people
don't admit to that,
we all know that the bad hair
day doesn't get covered up,
you know?
It's there, whether you
are wearing a veil or not.
>> Let's talk a little bit
more about the community,
and what it does in the
extended communities.
How does this community
work here in Bethlehem?
>> Well, I think that basically
we're a land-based community,
which is extremely important
in that we have a farm
and a working farm in which all
the women of the community are
involved.
>> And even in our brief
visit to the Abbey,
it didn't take us long to
see just how involved this
community is in God's work.
The remarkable and
individual contributions
of these women to their
faith are seen everywhere.
From Mother Margaret
Georgina, who
tenderly cares for each of
the Abbey's beautiful plants,
to Sister Elizabeth, who has
the enviable and loving task
to make sure the Abbey's
cows, appropriately
named Amazing and Grace,
receive the best care possible.
Even the statue of
the Virgin mother,
who greets the
guests of the Abbey,
was meticulously
designed by another
of the nuns, Mother Praxedes.
Presiding over all the nuns
is the founder of the Abbey,
and the one to whom
each nun may turn to
for guidance, Lady Abbess.
Each moment of each day,
whether it be in the fields
or in the chapel,
there was a woman
who lives out her
contemplative life,
not only in prayer, but in
the privilege of serving
God in a very special way.
>> What is your
expertise, Mother Dolores?
>> I would say it's been acting.
And I hope when I
end up, they can say,
this is the best
act you ever did.
But I did have to join--
I did have to join
the human race.
And I did become a carpenter
for a number of years,
and learned the
trade of carpentry,
and was able to help the
community in doing repairs,
making tables, doing chairs.
And I think in one of the
most extraordinary gifts
was learning how to
make ancient coffins,
so that we were able
to bury our own dead.
>> What a loving thing to do
to be able to build a coffin
to put one of your own in,
to send them on their way.
I can't think of a more
loving gesture than that.
>> There was another way
Mother Dolores has served this
community.
And that is by offering
support and the honest truth
to visitors, such as Academy
Award-winning actress, Patricia
Neal.
>> When you're
getting a divorce--
and I was an impossible woman--
I was bitter, I was furious,
I was sorry for myself.
And finally she said,
look, I've had it.
I've had enough.
Pull yourself together.
Which I think I did.
[THEME MUSIC]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> She walked out of the
door, and I turned around,
and I burst into tears
and I said, oh, my god,
what have I done?
I'm telling her
that she is angry,
and I'm the one who
just blew my top.
[THEME MUSIC]
>> Would it please you to hear
that I've lived in torture all
these months, hoping never to
find you and wishing to give
my life just to
see you once more?
>> Actress Patricia Neal created
unforgettable moments on screen
in such films as "The
Fountainhead" with Gary Cooper.
She then went on to win an
Academy Award as Best Actress
in the movie, "HUD."
>> I've done my time with
one cold-blooded bastard.
I'm not looking for another.
>> But that was on camera.
Her off-camera life was
later filled with tragedy,
from the brain-damaging
injury of her young son,
followed with tragic speed
by the death of her daughter
at the age of seven, to her
debilitating and near-fatal
stroke.
Then, after 30 years of
marriage to writer Roald Dahl,
he left her for another woman.
>> One of the people who came
here when she was in enormous
pain in her life is the
great actress Patricia Neal.
>> (DEEP VOICE) Oh, you
know what I'm talking about?
>> Yes.
>> That Patricia Neal.
She credits you with
centering her and saving her.
How did you do that?
Talk about a dark
night of the soul.
She was here during her darkest.
>> I would think that our way
of helping Patricia was to allow
her a place of enclosure at
a time when she really needed
to be covered and veiled.
>> Yes.
>> She came here with, I think,
the rage of every woman that
she's ever portrayed.
And when she arrived
on our doorstep,
she wanted to do
a book on the life
that she had experienced with
Roald, and to just say it.
>> She came here.
She was in a lot of pain.
She'd had a stroke.
Her husband had left her
for someone she knew.
If I know Patricia
Neal, I would speculate
that it was difficult
for her to say,
I'm going to go to a monastery.
>> Yes.
>> I was worried about
the nunnery because, well,
one thing was that I smoked, and
they didn't want me to smoke.
And I drank, and I'm
not allowed to drink.
But you know, and I was just
frightened of what would
happen to me in this nunnery.
And it took a lot of
strength for me to go.
And I must tell you the truth.
I must tell you the truth.
I bought a couple of
bottles when I went,
and I hid them in the drawer.
I never had a drink from
the minute I got there.
I just didn't touch it.
>> Well, how do I say
this, because I respect her
enormously--
she must have been
a challenging guest.
Is that a kind way to put it?
>> Um-- no, I have to say
that Patricia won't mind
because we're very honest.
When she came, we got
along fine for a while.
And she asked if she
could write her book here,
which was the Lady Abbess'
inspiration that she really
think and work on this book
rather than go outside.
And I was the one,
of course, that
elected to stay with Patricia
in her writing of the book.
So we would spend many
hours discussing things.
And as Patricia
discussed, sometimes she
would get more and more and
more outrageous about this.
And I think there was just one
particular point where I told
her, get the hell out of here!
And don't you ever put your
nose across this doorstep
again, because you are really--
I don't even remember what
I said, but you can feel it.
It's coming up in me.
>> Well, you set a boundary.
>> Yes.
>> It seems that you've
set a boundary, Mother.
And you mirrored
to her how she was.
>> But the thing that you have
to know was that she walked out
of the door, and I turned
around, and I burst into tears,
and I said, oh, my
god, what have I done?
I'm telling her
that she is angry,
and I'm the one who
just blew my top.
I'm the one who just did it.
And I'm telling that to her.
And then I thought,
this is terrible,
because I've blown it.
I really eliminated a
possibility that was enormous.
And it must have been about
two or three hours later,
and the phone rang.
And it was Patricia.
And she gets on the
phone and she says,
(DEEP VOICE) Mother Dolores?
And I said, yes?
You're right.
And said, I'm not
right, Patricia.
And I'm not left.
I'm not up.
I'm not down.
I'm with you.
>> Mother Dolores, she
really has had enough.
And she said, out!
Out!
Out, you go!
Don't come back!
Well, that is a little
surprising to hear.
And it was like I was
being thrown to the world,
I mean, all by myself,
and I could not swim.
So I was a little disturbed.
But you know, I love the Abbey.
It's a fantastic place.
>> I wonder if you can
define faith for me.
And I ask because I
think a lot of people
today have holes in
their souls, and they
are looking for something.
And I think it's faith.
So how do you define faith?
>> I think faith
is, first of all,
remembering the exquisite and
extraordinary gift that God has
given you in very
particular moments,
very particular gifts
of relationship,
very particular times.
It's remembering the
God that I do know.
And I think faith is also
having the guts to say yes
when you have absolutely
no idea what that Yes
can mean or do or take you.
But it is believing
when you don't know.
I know Lady Abbess
has often told me
that one of the reasons
she's the abbess
is because she's the only
one around here who knows she
doesn't know what she's doing.
She says, everybody else thinks
they know what they're doing.
And she goes, when you
finally come to the point
where you know
you're in a mystery,
and you're saying
Yes to a mystery.
>> People talk a lot today
about being spiritual as opposed
to religious.
Just yesterday someone said to
me, well, I'm not religious,
but I'm pretty spiritual.
Do you understand
the difference?
what that means?
>> I think those two
things are a complement,
and they have to come into a
convergence if there is going
to be a real truth in being
either spiritual or religious.
>> Yes, so do I. I'm
glad you feel that way.
How do you continue
your mission,
the cloistered mission, with so
few women coming to this life?
It seems to me that less and
less women come to this life.
Is that so?
>> Well, I think it's a
quality rather than a quantity
question, in that we couldn't
possibly know that we were
doing better
because we had more.
We can say we're doing our
best because those who are here
are giving all they can.
And I think that's all--
all you can do in a mission
is to do the next right thing.
>> Your faith, to me, is such
a deeply rooted, profound,
moving faith.
Saint John of the Cross wrote so
often about faith being tested,
and he called it the
dark night of the soul.
I know you've had dark
nights of the soul.
What do you do to
hold onto the faith?
>> I think, Chantal, that I have
been in a very gifted position
where a lot of people have
written to me over the years.
And also I was diagnosed
with a disease called
"sensory peripheral
neuropathy," which
has to do with a certain
nerve disorder in your feet
and hands.
They really don't know what it
is, but you do know it's there.
>> When we return, Mother
Dolores fights the toughest
battle of her life.
And then we'll hear
one beautiful way
that every nun at the Abbey
finds spiritual strength
and healing.
[THEME MUSIC]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Why, if you can heal, I
mean, why don't you heal this?
And then a thought came to me,
I don't want to be healed alone.
[THEME MUSIC]
>> I don't wish to
invade too much,
but I am curious to know because
I think other people want
to know.
What does this
disease feel like?
How does it affect your body?
It must be so painful.
>> Well, I think when it
first came to me I felt like,
possibly, if you're walking
on a nail bed, you know,
because it affects
your feet first,
and then it becomes very hot.
>> What kind of treatment
is there for neuropathy?
>> I think that's the problem
is they don't have one.
The kind of neuropathy,
which I have,
which is called idiopathic,
which means you don't know.
And so since they don't
know the source of it,
they can't really treat it.
>> Do you ever say, why me, God?
Or probably you might
say, why would you
let this happen to me?
I mean, you're a nun.
>> All the time.
Because I mean, I've
got the right to say,
you know, I don't
know why now me,
but I come more into the
question, since I realized how
many people have this, why us?
Why does God allow suffering?
But then, why did
He allow us His son
to go through the most
ignominious death?
I think that's a question that
tortures your understanding
as a human being.
And somewhere you have to
believe that pain and suffering
are a path.
>> My question is, well,
why doesn't He heal you?
I feel defensive.
I want Him to heal you.
>> Well, Chantal,
I thought of that.
And one time I
remember just saying,
you know, why, if you can heal
me, why don't you heal this?
And then the thought
came to me, I
don't want to be healed alone.
What sense would it make?
And if there is a need for
research and understanding
and a way of finding out
what this disease is, perhaps
my being part of this community
of neuropathy sufferers
will bring about enough
consciousness in research
so that something can
happen for a greater We.
And that's-- I mean, that's
a pretty noble answer,
and I can say that to you
with all the lights on.
>> And what about when
the lights aren't on, when
you're alone in your room?
Do you ever cry?
>> Oh, yeah, you have to.
I think being able to have
the freedom to cry out
is very, very, very
helpful and healing.
>> How do you get in touch with
other neuropathy sufferers?
Are you computer literate?
>> Oh, yes.
>> [GASP] You are?
>> Yes.
>> Mother Dolores, you
are better than me.
>> Let me say, OK, I can get on.
Let me put that--
>> You can get online?
>> I can get online,
and I can stay on.
>> So then there are
neuropathy websites.
There are message
boards you can go to.
>> Yes, the neuropathy
organization has a wonderful
website.
And through that,
they have a chat room.
And in that chat room, hundreds
of people who have this disease
are able to communicate and
talk about what new medications
they've explored and what
new ways of exercise,
what new opportunities
they've seen.
And for people who can't
afford doctors, they--
and it's really--
it's really great.
[CHOIR SINGING GREGORIAN CHANT]
>> There was another way Mother
Dolores received help when it
comes to her illness.
And it's here within
the walls of the Abbey's
beautiful church, where
every day at 5 o'clock
the nuns attend Vespers.
From this, Mother
Dolores and the other
nuns not only gain strength
and renew their faith,
but their music has brought
them another gift they never
imagined.
In 1997, a CD entitled
"Women in Chant"
was recorded at this very Abbey.
Mother Dolores and 27 other
of the Benedictine nuns
chanted on a recording
that won public acclaim
and brought their community
some much needed support.
The Gregorian
liturgies are songs
of prayer of hope for all
those men and women seeking
a path to wholeness, and a
restoration of the sacred
in their own lives.
It is a remarkable recording.
[MUSIC - CHOIR OF BENEDICTINE
NUNS OF THE ABBEY OF REGINA
LAUDIS]
>> Years ago, I was wandering
through a music store.
And I thought, women in chant.
And I picked it up, and I
said to the guy, what is this?
And he said, that's really cool.
It's nuns chanting.
How did that come about?
>> Oh, Chantal, that story
is a whole other chapter.
But I can tell you simply
that a very dear friend that
was a blues man, Tom
Pomposello, and Tom
had an absolute inspiration
that the blues--
that the holy blues
and chant could relate.
And he said, can I produce a
CD of your community singing
particular selections
of the chant?
The community took a vote on
it, and that is, in a nutshell,
how we got to women in chant.
>> So it's the Vespers that
you do every single day--
>> It's actually the liturgy
that we sing is extensive.
It's a book this big
of the compilation
of the hymns and the psalms
and the chant of the church.
It's really the back of the
mind of the church in song
for centuries.
So every day, there's
a different Saint
and a different
selection of music.
[MUSIC - CHOIR OF BENEDICTINE
NUNS OF THE ABBEY OF REGINA
LAUDIS]
>> With all the psalms and Bible
passages and songs and vespers
you sing and read, is there
one that gives you particular
comfort?
Is there one that you love in
your heart that stands out?
>> I would say the "Offertory
Recordaris," which, in English,
translates, "remember me,
almost gracious mother of God.
Before the throne of
God, remember my good,
and don't allow his
anger to overtake us."
And I thought about that so
often in terms of you always
want someone to
remember your good.
>> If I had to describe
Mother Dolores,
I would say she is
a raving beauty.
She's fantastic.
And she's kind, and
she has great humor,
and great religion.
She believes in Him.
And so do I.
>> The great wish I had for
Dolores the rest of her life is
that, all that
she has given us--
me, her friends, the Abbey--
that we're able to give back to
her the same amount before she
dies.
>> You know, Mother Dolores,
I think the greatest gift one
person can give another
person is to, in some way,
bring them closer to God.
And you have done
that for me today.
And I thank you for this
most remarkable conversation.
>> Well, I think this
is a two-way street.
And if this camera would allow
me, I would give you a hug,
but then that would put
you right out of frame.
>> No.
No, you wouldn't.
Thank you, Mother.
>> It's really good.
>> You may purchase a copy of
the remarkable CD "Women In
Chant" by writing to
the Abbey Regina Laudis,
273 Flanders Road, Bethlehem,
Connecticut, 06751.
[THEME MUSIC]